README.md, before:

# IntentBook – AI Contextual Bookmark Organizer

A local-first, privacy-respecting Chrome extension that uses AI to automatically classify and organize your saved pages.

## Features

- **One-Click Save**: Save any page with a single click
- **Free AI Options**: Works with Google Gemini (free) or OpenRouter (free models)
- **AI-Powered Classification**: Automatically categorizes pages by intent, type, and topics
- **Smart Summaries**: Generates concise summaries and key takeaways
- **Local Storage**: All data stored locally in IndexedDB - no cloud, no tracking
- **Revisit Detection**: Shows a badge when you revisit a saved page
- **Full-Text Search**: Search through all your saved bookmarks
- **Category Browsing**: Browse saved pages by AI-classified categories
- **Export/Import**: Backup and restore your data as JSON
- **Privacy First**: API keys stored locally, no external tracking

## Installation

### Prerequisites

1. Chrome browser (version 88 or higher)
2. A free API key from one of:
   - **Google Gemini** (Recommended - Free): https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
   - **OpenRouter** (Free models): https://openrouter.ai/keys
   - **OpenAI** (Paid): https://platform.openai.com/api-keys

### Step 1: Download/Clone

Download or clone this repository to your local machine.

### Step 2: Load the Extension

1. Open Chrome and navigate to `chrome://extensions/`
2. Enable "Developer mode" (toggle in top right)
3. Click "Load unpacked"
4. Select the `intentbook` folder
5. The extension icon should appear in your toolbar

### Step 3: Configure API Key

1. Click the extension icon
2. Click the settings gear icon (⚙️)
3. Select your AI provider (Google Gemini is recommended and free)
4. Enter your API key
5. Click "Save Settings"

**Getting a Free API Key:**

**Google Gemini (Recommended):**
1. Go to https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
2. Sign in with your Google account
3. Click "Create API Key"
4. Copy the key and paste it in settings

**OpenRouter:**
1. Go to https://openrouter.ai/keys
2. Create a free account
3. Generate an API key
4. Use free models like `google/gemini-2.0-flash-exp:free`

## Usage

### Saving a Page

1. Navigate to any webpage you want to save
2. Click the IntentBook extension icon to open the popup
3. Click the "Save" button in the header
4. The extension will:
   - Extract the page content
   - Send it to the AI API
   - Classify and save the result
5. A toast notification will show the classification result

### Viewing Saved Pages

1. Click the extension icon to open the popup
2. Use the tabs to navigate:
   - **All**: View all saved bookmarks
   - **Categories**: Browse by intent category
   - **Search**: Full-text search through bookmarks
   - **Export**: Export/import data

### Viewing Details

1. Click any bookmark item to see full details
2. Details include:
   - Title and URL
   - Primary intent classification
   - Page type
   - Confidence score
   - Summary
   - Topics
   - Key takeaways
   - Save date and visit count

### Search

1. Go to the Search tab
2. Type your query
3. Results update in real-time
4. Search covers: title, summary, topics, takeaways, and URL

### Export/Import

**Export:**
1. Go to the Export tab
2. Click "Export JSON"
3. A JSON file will download

**Import:**
1. Go to the Export tab
2. Click "Import JSON"
3. Select your backup file
4. Choose merge strategy:
   - Skip duplicates (default)
   - Replace duplicates

### Clearing Data

1. Go to the Export tab
2. Click "Clear All"
3. Confirm the action

## API Configuration

### Google Gemini (Recommended - Free)

- Free tier with generous limits (15 RPM, 1M tokens/day)
- Get your API key: https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
- Default model: `gemini-1.5-flash`

### OpenRouter (Free Models)

- Access to multiple free AI models
- Get your API key: https://openrouter.ai/keys
- Free models available: `google/gemini-2.0-flash-exp:free`, `meta-llama/llama-3.1-8b-instruct:free`

### OpenAI (Paid)

- Paid API with GPT models
- Get your API key: https://platform.openai.com/api-keys
- Models: `gpt-4o-mini`, `gpt-4`, `gpt-3.5-turbo`

## Data Storage

All data is stored locally using IndexedDB:

**Database:** `intentbookDB`  
**Store:** `bookmarks`

**Schema:**
```javascript
{
  id: Number (auto-increment),
  url: String (unique),
  title: String,
  primary_intent: String,
  page_type: String,
  topics: Array<String>,
  summary: String,
  key_takeaways: Array<String>,
  confidence: Number (0.0-1.0),
  date_saved: String (ISO date),
  visit_count: Number
}
```

**Indexes:**
- `url` (unique)
- `primary_intent`
- `date_saved`

## Classification Categories

### Primary Intent
- `learning_guide` - Educational content, courses, tutorials
- `research_reference` - Academic papers, documentation, references
- `buying_decision` - Product reviews, comparisons, shopping
- `product_tool` - Software tools, apps, services
- `news_update` - News articles, announcements
- `opinion_analysis` - Editorials, opinions, analysis
- `tutorial_howto` - Step-by-step guides, how-tos
- `career_job` - Job listings, career content
- `inspiration` - Creative content, ideas
- `entertainment` - Games, videos, entertainment
- `problem_solution` - Q&A, troubleshooting
- `documentation` - Technical docs, API references
- `other` - Uncategorized

### Page Type
- `article`
- `documentation`
- `product_page`
- `forum_discussion`
- `academic_paper`
- `landing_page`
- `ecommerce_listing`
- `video_page`
- `other`

## Privacy

- **No cloud storage**: All data stays in your browser
- **No tracking**: No analytics or telemetry
- **Local API key**: Your API key is stored in `chrome.storage.local`
- **No logging**: Page content is never logged
- **Your control**: Export and delete your data anytime

## Troubleshooting

### "API key missing"
- Go to settings and enter your API key
- Make sure to click "Save Settings"

### "Failed to save page"
- Check your API key is valid
- Check your API endpoint is correct
- Check your internet connection
- Check the browser console for errors

### "Duplicate URL"
- The page has already been saved
- Each URL can only be saved once

### Extension not working
1. Make sure you've loaded the extension correctly
2. Check that icons are generated (PNG files in icons/ folder)
3. Refresh the page and try again
4. Check chrome://extensions/ for errors

### Badge not showing on revisit
- The page must be fully loaded
- Some pages (chrome://, file://) are not supported
- Check that the URL matches exactly

## Development

### File Structure
```
intentbook/
├── manifest.json        # Extension manifest (MV3)
├── background.js        # Service worker
├── contentScript.js     # Page content extraction
├── contentStyles.css    # Badge styles
├── popup.html           # Popup UI
├── popup.js             # Popup logic
├── styles.css           # Popup styles
├── db.js               # IndexedDB operations
├── ai.js               # AI API integration
├── utils.js            # Utility functions
├── icons/              # Extension icons
│   ├── icon16.png
│   ├── icon48.png
│   └── icon128.png
└── README.md           # This file
```

### Permissions
- `activeTab`: Access current tab content
- `storage`: Store API key and settings
- `scripting`: Inject content scripts
- `host_permissions`: Access page content for saving

### Building
No build step required. Load the unpacked extension directly.

## License

MIT License - Feel free to modify and distribute.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## Support

For issues and feature requests, please open an issue on the repository.

Commit message:

Add Chrome AI (built-in) support with better error reporting
- Add Chrome AI (Gemini Nano) as default provider
- Show AI source in toast notifications
- Show clear error messages when AI fails
- Add Chrome AI availability check in settings
- Update UI to hide API key fields for Chrome AI
- Improve debugging with console logs
- Update README with Chrome AI setup instructions

README.md, after:

# IntentBook – AI Contextual Bookmark Organizer

A local-first, privacy-respecting Chrome extension that uses AI to automatically classify and organize your saved pages.

## Features

- **One-Click Save**: Save any page with a single click
- **Chrome AI Built-in**: Works offline with Chrome's built-in Gemini Nano (no API key needed!)
- **Free Cloud AI**: Google Gemini or OpenRouter (free models)
- **AI-Powered Classification**: Automatically categorizes pages by intent, type, and topics
- **Smart Summaries**: Generates concise summaries and key takeaways
- **Local Storage**: All data stored locally in IndexedDB - no cloud, no tracking
- **Revisit Detection**: Shows a badge when you revisit a saved page
- **Full-Text Search**: Search through all your saved bookmarks
- **Category Browsing**: Browse saved pages by AI-classified categories
- **Export/Import**: Backup and restore your data as JSON
- **Privacy First**: API keys stored locally, no external tracking

## Installation

### Step 1: Load the Extension

1. Open Chrome and navigate to `chrome://extensions/`
2. Enable "Developer mode" (toggle in top right)
3. Click "Load unpacked"
4. Select the `intentbook` folder
5. The extension icon should appear in your toolbar

### Step 2: Choose Your AI Provider

**Option A: Chrome AI (Recommended - No API Key Needed!)**
1. Requires Chrome 127+ 
2. Go to `chrome://flags`
3. Search for "Prompt API" and enable it
4. Search for "Gemini Nano" and enable "Optimization Guide" 
5. Restart Chrome
6. Open extension settings - it will show if Chrome AI is available

**Option B: Google Gemini API (Free)**
1. Go to https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
2. Sign in with your Google account
3. Click "Create API Key"
4. Copy the key and paste it in extension settings

**Option C: OpenRouter (Free Models)**
1. Go to https://openrouter.ai/keys
2. Create a free account
3. Generate an API key
4. Use free models like `google/gemini-2.0-flash-exp:free`

### Step 3: Configure in Extension

1. Click the extension icon
2. Click the settings gear icon (⚙️)
3. Select your AI provider
4. If using cloud AI, enter your API key
5. Click "Save Settings"

## Usage

### Saving a Page

1. Navigate to any webpage you want to save
2. Click the IntentBook extension icon to open the popup
3. Click the "Save" button in the header
4. The extension will:
   - Extract the page content
   - Send it to the AI API
   - Classify and save the result
5. A toast notification will show the classification result

### Viewing Saved Pages

1. Click the extension icon to open the popup
2. Use the tabs to navigate:
   - **All**: View all saved bookmarks
   - **Categories**: Browse by intent category
   - **Search**: Full-text search through bookmarks
   - **Export**: Export/import data

### Viewing Details

1. Click any bookmark item to see full details
2. Details include:
   - Title and URL
   - Primary intent classification
   - Page type
   - Confidence score
   - Summary
   - Topics
   - Key takeaways
   - Save date and visit count

### Search

1. Go to the Search tab
2. Type your query
3. Results update in real-time
4. Search covers: title, summary, topics, takeaways, and URL

### Export/Import

**Export:**
1. Go to the Export tab
2. Click "Export JSON"
3. A JSON file will download

**Import:**
1. Go to the Export tab
2. Click "Import JSON"
3. Select your backup file
4. Choose merge strategy:
   - Skip duplicates (default)
   - Replace duplicates

### Clearing Data

1. Go to the Export tab
2. Click "Clear All"
3. Confirm the action

## API Configuration

### Google Gemini (Recommended - Free)

- Free tier with generous limits (15 RPM, 1M tokens/day)
- Get your API key: https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
- Default model: `gemini-1.5-flash`

### OpenRouter (Free Models)

- Access to multiple free AI models
- Get your API key: https://openrouter.ai/keys
- Free models available: `google/gemini-2.0-flash-exp:free`, `meta-llama/llama-3.1-8b-instruct:free`

### OpenAI (Paid)

- Paid API with GPT models
- Get your API key: https://platform.openai.com/api-keys
- Models: `gpt-4o-mini`, `gpt-4`, `gpt-3.5-turbo`

## Data Storage

All data is stored locally using IndexedDB:

**Database:** `intentbookDB`  
**Store:** `bookmarks`

**Schema:**
```javascript
{
  id: Number (auto-increment),
  url: String (unique),
  title: String,
  primary_intent: String,
  page_type: String,
  topics: Array<String>,
  summary: String,
  key_takeaways: Array<String>,
  confidence: Number (0.0-1.0),
  date_saved: String (ISO date),
  visit_count: Number
}
```

**Indexes:**
- `url` (unique)
- `primary_intent`
- `date_saved`

## Classification Categories

### Primary Intent
- `learning_guide` - Educational content, courses, tutorials
- `research_reference` - Academic papers, documentation, references
- `buying_decision` - Product reviews, comparisons, shopping
- `product_tool` - Software tools, apps, services
- `news_update` - News articles, announcements
- `opinion_analysis` - Editorials, opinions, analysis
- `tutorial_howto` - Step-by-step guides, how-tos
- `career_job` - Job listings, career content
- `inspiration` - Creative content, ideas
- `entertainment` - Games, videos, entertainment
- `problem_solution` - Q&A, troubleshooting
- `documentation` - Technical docs, API references
- `other` - Uncategorized

### Page Type
- `article`
- `documentation`
- `product_page`
- `forum_discussion`
- `academic_paper`
- `landing_page`
- `ecommerce_listing`
- `video_page`
- `other`

## Privacy

- **No cloud storage**: All data stays in your browser
- **No tracking**: No analytics or telemetry
- **Local API key**: Your API key is stored in `chrome.storage.local`
- **No logging**: Page content is never logged
- **Your control**: Export and delete your data anytime

## Troubleshooting

### "API key missing"
- Go to settings and enter your API key
- Make sure to click "Save Settings"

### "Failed to save page"
- Check your API key is valid
- Check your API endpoint is correct
- Check your internet connection
- Check the browser console for errors

### "Duplicate URL"
- The page has already been saved
- Each URL can only be saved once

### Extension not working
1. Make sure you've loaded the extension correctly
2. Check that icons are generated (PNG files in icons/ folder)
3. Refresh the page and try again
4. Check chrome://extensions/ for errors

### Badge not showing on revisit
- The page must be fully loaded
- Some pages (chrome://, file://) are not supported
- Check that the URL matches exactly

## Development

### File Structure
```
intentbook/
├── manifest.json        # Extension manifest (MV3)
├── background.js        # Service worker
├── contentScript.js     # Page content extraction
├── contentStyles.css    # Badge styles
├── popup.html           # Popup UI
├── popup.js             # Popup logic
├── styles.css           # Popup styles
├── db.js               # IndexedDB operations
├── ai.js               # AI API integration
├── utils.js            # Utility functions
├── icons/              # Extension icons
│   ├── icon16.png
│   ├── icon48.png
│   └── icon128.png
└── README.md           # This file
```

### Permissions
- `activeTab`: Access current tab content
- `storage`: Store API key and settings
- `scripting`: Inject content scripts
- `host_permissions`: Access page content for saving

### Building
No build step required. Load the unpacked extension directly.

## License

MIT License - Feel free to modify and distribute.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## Support

For issues and feature requests, please open an issue on the repository.
